---
created: '2023-11-22 12:00:00 UTC'
updated: '2025-04-27 13:32:25 UTC'
---

# Tikka Masala

## Ingredients

### For the Tofu

- 400 g nature tofu, pressed and cut into bite sized pieces (to get the liquid out)

- 1 teaspoon vegetable oil

- 1 teaspoon garam masala

- ¼ teaspoon salt

- ¼ teaspoon ground black pepper

### For the Curry Sauce

- 1 tablespoon vegetable oil

- 1 large onion, finely diced

- 4 garlic cloves, finely chopped or crushed

- 1 tablespoon fresh ginger, grated

- 1 teaspoon garam masala

- 1 teaspoon chilli powder

- 1/2 teaspoon turmeric

- 1 tablespoon tomato paste

- 1 x 400 g can chopped tomatoes

- 100 g plant-based yogurt

- 100 g coconut cream

- 2 tablespoons fresh coriander, chopped

- Salt and pepper to taste

### For the Side Dish

- Cook rice or prepare naan bread

## Instructions

Start by preparing the tofu.
Preheat the oven to 200°C.
Add the tofu cubes to a mixing bowl together with the vegetable oil, garam masala, salt and pepper.
Toss gently until the tofu is coated evenly.
Arrange the tofu bits in a single layer on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake for 15-20 minutes until crispy, flipping them halfway through.

Meanwhile, make the curry sauce.
Heat the vegetable oil in a large, deep pan and fry the onion for 4-5 minutes over medium heat until softened.

Next stir in the garlic and ginger and continue to cook for another minute until fragrant.
Add all the spices and cook for a further minute, stirring almost continuously.

Stir in the tomato paste and chopped tomatoes and bring to a simmer.
Lower the heat and let the sauce bubble for 5 minutes, then stir in the yoghurt and coconut cream.
Allow the sauce to reach the simmering point again and then stir in the tofu.

Stir in the fresh coriander, season to taste, and serve over rice and sprinkled with extra fresh coriander and lime if you like.

