---
created: '2025-04-27 13:23:53 UTC'
updated: '2025-04-27 13:23:53 UTC'
---

# Cinnamon Rolls

## Ingredients
### Yeast Dough
- 500 g flour
- 1 packet dry yeast (or ½ cube fresh yeast)
- 100 g sugar
- ½ tsp salt
- 50 g vegan butter (e.g., Alsan margarine)
- 250 g plant milk (e.g., soy milk, oat milk; equals 250 ml)

### Cinnamon Filling
- 60 g vegan butter (e.g., Alsan margarine)
- 60 g sugar
- 2 tsp cinnamon

### Icing
- 100 g powdered sugar
- 1 tbsp plant milk or plant cream (e.g., soy cream, oat cream)

## Instructions
### Prepare Yeast Dough
- Mix in a bowl:
   - 500 g flour
   - 1 packet dry yeast
   - 100 g sugar
   - ½ tsp salt
- Mix the dry ingredients well.
- Add:
   - 250 g plant milk
   - 50 g vegan butter (softened to room temperature)
- (If using fresh yeast, add ½ cube at this step.)
- Knead the dough for 10 minutes using dough hooks of a hand mixer or a kitchen machine.
- Do not add more liquid.
    It takes about 4 minutes for everything to combine well.
- Knead for a total of 10 minutes until the dough is smooth and no longer sticky.
- Cover the bowl with a damp cloth or cling film.
- Let it rise for an hour or longer.

### Prepare Filling
- Melt 60 g vegan butter (in a small pot or briefly in the microwave).
    Should be just warm enough to become liquid.
- Add to the melted margarine:
   - 60 g sugar
   - 2 tsp cinnamon
- Stir well and let the mixture cool to become firmer.
- (Alternatively, spread the dough with soft margarine and then sprinkle with dry sugar-cinnamon mixture.)

### Roll and Fill Yeast Dough
1. Grease a casserole dish (approx. 25 x 35 cm).
2. Dust working surface and rolling pin with some flour.
3. Roll out the yeast dough into a rectangle (approx. 30 x 42 cm).
4. Spread the filling evenly over the dough. (Or brush the dough with soft margarine and then sprinkle with dry sugar-cinnamon mixture.)
5. Roll up the dough from the long side (you'll have a roll about 42 cm long).
6. Cut the roll into slices with a sharp knife (12 slices, about 3.5 cm thick each).
7. Place the slices in the greased casserole dish (e.g., 3 rows of 4 cinnamon rolls each).
8. Cover the casserole dish with a damp cloth.
9. Let the cinnamon rolls rise again for 30 minutes.

### Bake Cinnamon Rolls
1. Preheat the oven to 180 °C (top/bottom heat).
2. Lightly spray or brush the cinnamon rolls in the casserole dish with water.
3. Bake in the oven (middle rack) for 25 minutes at 180 °C until golden brown.
4. Let cool slightly.

### Icing
1. Sift 100 g powdered sugar.
2. Mix with 1 tbsp plant milk until smooth. (Be careful not to add too much liquid, or the icing will be too thin.)
3. Spread the icing over the lukewarm cinnamon rolls.

