---
created: '2024-01-18 12:00:00 UTC'
updated: '2025-04-27 13:24:18 UTC'
---

# Enchiladas (Burritos)

### Ingredients

For the Vegetable Filling:
- 1-2 tablespoons oil for frying
- 2 onions, diced
- 4 cloves garlic, chopped
- 1 large carrot, diced
- ½ red bell pepper, diced*
- ½ yellow bell pepper, diced*
- 1 can beans (kidney or black beans, or a mix), 240 g drained weight
- 150 g corn, rinsed & drained
- 200 g cooked rice (½ bag) or cooked potatoes, lentils, or soy granules (\*see note)
- 400 g chopped tomatoes
- 1 tablespoon paprika
- Salt and pepper to taste
- Pinch of chili or chopped jalapeño to taste
- 125 ml creme fraiche

For Baking:
- 400 ml tomato sauce \*see notes
- 150 g vegan shredded cheese \*see notes

Additionally:
- 11 small tortillas or 6 large ones, *see note

For Garnish (optional):
- Spring onions
- Cilantro or parsley
- Jalapeños
- Limes

### Instructions

Prepare Vegetable Filling:
1. Cook the rice according to package instructions.
2. Clean and chop the vegetables.
3. Heat the oil in a large pan.
    Add the onions and sauté for about 2-3 minutes.
4. Then add the garlic, carrot, and both types of bell peppers and cook for about 4-5 minutes.
5. Drain and rinse the beans, then let them drain well.
    Put them in a large bowl and roughly mash with a potato masher (or a fork) but do not puree.
6. Add the mashed beans to the pan with the vegetables.
7. Also add the corn, cooked rice, and chopped tomatoes.
    Season with paprika, salt, pepper, and chili to taste.

Prepare Enchiladas:
1. Preheat the oven to 180°C (356°F).
2. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with some tomato sauce.
3. Fill the tortillas with the vegetable filling, roll them up, and place them side by side in the prepared baking dish, seam side down, so they don’t open up.
4. Then spread the remaining tomato sauce over the enchiladas and sprinkle with creme fraiche and vegan cheese as desired.
5. Bake the enchiladas at 200°C (392°F) top/bottom heat or 180°C (356°F) convection for about 20-25 minutes.
6. Garnish with fresh spring onions, jalapeños, and cilantro or parsley, and finish with a squirt of lime juice. Enjoy!

### Notes

- Tortillas: I used 11 small 15-cm diameter tortillas, but you can also use 6 large or 8 medium (20-cm) tortilla wraps.
- Rice: Instead of rice, you can use the same amount of cooked lentils, coarsely mashed potatoes, couscous, soy granules, sunflower mince, or simply more mashed beans.
- Meal Prep: The enchiladas can be prepared the day before.
    Then cover the baking dish with plastic wrap or aluminum foil and store in the refrigerator.
    Bake the next day as described in the recipe.

